Definition
Fashion is a popular aesthetic expression at a particular time and place and in a specific context, especially in clothing, footwear, lifestyle, accessories, makeup, hairstyle, and body proportions.

Fashion trends
Whereas a trend often connotes a peculiar aesthetic expression and often lasting shorter than a season, fashion is a distinctive and industry-supported expression traditionally tied to the fashion season and collections.

Fashion style
Style is an expression that lasts over many seasons and is often connected to cultural movements and social markers, symbols, class, and culture (ex. Baroque, Rococo, etc.). 

Famous quotation of Pierre Bourdieu
According to sociologist Pierre Bourdieu, fashion connotes "the latest fashion, the latest difference."

Technology influences on Fashion
Technology plays a significant role in most aspects of today's society. Technological influences are growing more apparent in the fashion industry. Advances and new developments are shaping and creating current and future trends.

wearable Technology
Developments such as wearable technology have become an essential trend in fashion. They will continue with advances such as clothing constructed with solar panels that charge devices and smart fabrics that enhance wearer comfort by changing color or texture based on environmental changes.

3D Printing in Fashion
The fashion industry is seeing how 3D printing technology has influenced designers such as Iris Van Herpen and Kimberly Ovitz.

Influence of Internet on Fashion
Internet technology such as online retailers and social media platforms have given way for trends to be identified, marketed, and sold immediately. Styles and trends are easily conveyed online to attract trendsetters. 
Posts on Instagram or Facebook can quickly increase awareness about new trends in fashion, which subsequently may create high demand for specific items or brands, new "buy now button" technology can link these styles with direct sales.

Economic influences
With increasing environmental awareness, the economic imperative to "Spend now, think later" is getting increasingly scrutinized. Today's consumer tends to be more mindful about consumption, looking for just enough and better, more durable options. 
People have also become more conscious of the impact their everyday consumption has on the environment and society, and these initiatives are often described as a move towards sustainable fashion, yet critics argue a circular economy based on growth is an oxymoron, or an increasing spiral of consumption, rather than a utopian cradle-to-cradle circular solution.

Market research
Consumers of different groups have varying needs and demands. Factors taken into consideration when thinking of consumers' needs include key demographics. To understand consumers' needs and predict fashion trends, fashion companies have to do market research. There are two research methods: primary and secondary. 
Primary research is collecting data through surveys, interviews, observation, and/or focus groups. Primary research often focuses on large sample sizes to determine customer's motivations to shop.
Benefits of primary research is specific information about a fashion brand's consumer is explored. Surveys are helpful tools; questions can be open-ended or closed-ended. A negative factor surveys and interviews present is that the answers can be biased, due to wording in the survey or on face-to-face interactions. 
Secondary methods are taking other information that has already been collected, for example using a book or an article for research.

Media
The media plays a significant role when it comes to fashion. For instance, an important part of fashion is fashion journalism. Editorial critique, guidelines, and commentary can be found on television and in magazines, newspapers, fashion websites, social networks, and fashion blogs. 
In recent years, fashion blogging and YouTube videos have become a major outlet for spreading trends and fashion tips, creating an online culture of sharing one's style on a website or Instagram account. Through these media outlets readers and viewers all over the world can learn about fashion, making it very accessible.
In addition to fashion journalism, another media platform that is important in fashion industry is advertisement. Advertisements provide information to audiences and promote the sales of products and services. Fashion industry utilizes advertisements to attract consumers and promote its products to generate sales. 
Few decades ago when technology was still underdeveloped, advertisements heavily relied on radio, magazines, billboards, and newspapers.
These days, there are more various ways in advertisements such as television ads, online-based ads using internet websites, and posts, videos, and live streaming in social media platforms.


Latest trends in 2020
Coolest fashion trends spotted at Spring/Summer 2020 fashion weeks. -Shoes Worn Over Pants  -Oversized Victorian Sleeves -Chunky Boots with Feminine Dresses  -Maxi Faux Leather Coats

Shoes Worn Over Pants
Whether you’re walking to the office or having brunch with friends, you can wrap a pair of strappy heels around the ankle of your cigarette pants, jeans, or slacks. 
Complete the look with a matching jacket, coat, or an off-the-shoulder blouse. This is a refreshing take on a classic style that is sure to turn heads!

Oversized Victorian Sleeves
Take it back to the 19th century with the Victorian-inspired sleeves. Its oversized shape creates the illusion of a slimmer waist and adds an instant feminine touch to your ensemble. Opt for soft colors during spring, or unleash your inner gothic princess in black or grey. 
It is also a great time to pull out your vintage ‘80s puff sleeve looks – it’s a style that keeps coming back!

Chunky Boots with Feminine Dresses 
Grunge is back in a big way with these feminine dresses and chunky boots. Whether you’re a fan of bold patterns or you prefer block colors, a maxi with a cinched waist is an easy way to show off your girly side. Pair it with combat boots, and you’ll be ready for anything! This is a ’90s authentic, so don’t be afraid to mix things up and have some fun!

Maxi Faux Leather Coats
When the temperature drops, keep yourself warm and toasty in a faux leather coat. If you prefer to look sleek and high fashion or funky with a grunge twist, these long-line pieces are perfect for you. Switch things up by rocking a bold color like red or emerald, or knock everyone out of the park in an all-black ensemble. This is another ’90s staple that just got a fresh upgrade, so why not give it a try this winter?
